the secret to getting a 30 email open
rate on average for every dollar you
spend on email marketing you can earn 36
dollars according to Constant Contact
and if you are a top performer for every
dollar you spend you can earn seventy
dollars but here's the thing if no one
opens up your emails you'll never earn
seven dollars or even thirty six dollars
so let's fix that by not only helping
you get your emails open but let's make
them better than average according to
MailChimp the average open rate for all
Industries is 20.33
but I'm getting a 30 plus percent open
rate literally on almost every single
one of my emails and our clients at NP
digital are also getting high open rates
of 30 and in many cases above 40 percent
look as I mentioned email marketing is
the absolute gold mine but we have to
get your emails open so let's dive into
a few simple strategies strategy number
one make your emails more conversational
a simple way to do this is try
addressing the recipient's name in the
subject line it makes your emails more
personal and causes them to open them
and when doing this use people's name
instead of their company remember it's a
person opening up that email not a
faceless company this also helps build a
sense of familiarity so that the person
feels seen as if your email was a tool
for building a relationship an
interesting step for you is that 64
percent of recipients make a decision on
whether or not to open up an email based
on the subject line so make sure your
subject line is amazing campaign monitor
also says that subject lines with 41
characters is the optimal link but I
found that my open rates tend to be the
best when I keep my subject line to
three words Max in essence less is more
strategy number two subscriber
segmentation is one of the most
effective email marketing campaign
strategies you might have the best offer
out there but it means nothing if it's
not going to the right person Target
your audience based on location interest
purchase history and other major factors
and once your email is open your offer
will be right there ready for them to
convert according to snow segmenting
your list by interest increases open
rates by 39 percent what I like to do
with my segmentation list is mainly use
locations because we are a global
company and the services we offer are
different per country in addition to
that the biggest thing that has affected
my segmentation is buyers versus
non-buyers I recommend having two lists
you'll find that your buyers are more
active than non-virus and you'll want to
send them different emails as they're
already customers strategy number three
avoid Spam folders getting sent to the
spam folder is a death sentence for your
email list send your campaigns from a
good replica IP address the way you do
this is twofold you can either warm up
your IP address by slowly sending emails
and increasing the volume per day so you
may start off with like 100 emails a day
one day and then 500 in day two and then
thousand day three and then 2000 day
four three thousand day five five
thousand day six and maybe even ten
thousand in day seven you get home
slowly warming it up most people don't
have that big of a list so you're
probably going to warm yours up even
slower in essence you want to ease into
sending a lot of emails you wouldn't
just send ten thousand emails on day one
because you have to build trust with the
email clients such as Gmail and Outlook
another strategy that I love doing and
most people don't do this I don't know
why because everyone's like I want a
dedicated IP with my email address well
I like piggybacking on someone else's IP
a lot of email providers I convertkit I
have shared IPS which is great because
you don't want to warm up your IP
address it's better for you to leverage
other people's amazing reputation and
trust with those email platforms also
make sure all your users have opted in
for your emails and avoid excessively
salesy language include transparent
methods for them to also opt out of your
email so then that way you're not
continually sending people emails who
don't want them and what I like doing is
to not send people emails if they
continually don't open up your emails in
essence if I send someone four emails
over a period of let's say a month and
none of them get open I put them in a
re-engagement campaign and then send
them a super enticing email that they
may open such as a email marketing email
with amazing ebook that usually costs
money but I'm giving it away for free in
hopes that they open that email if they
open the email then I move them back to
my regular list if not I delete that
email address because if you keep
sending people emails when they aren't
opening it it causes the email platforms
to just put all your emails or the
majority of them in the spam box
strategy number four give value
this sounds simple but if your emails
offer value people open them if they
don't they won't open up so when sending
emails keep that in mind sure you may
need to sell them on something every
once in a while but offer a ton of value
that way people look forward to your
emails and will want to open them I know
this one sounds obvious but you'll be
shocked on how many people forget to do
it it's basic strategy number five timer
emails I don't know why people love
sending emails in the middle of night
every morning when I wake up I have
hundreds of unread emails in my inbox
when I wake up I see all these unread
emails and what do most people do they
ignore them
why because no one's going to want to
read 50 60 70 100 emails they just look
for them per month now if people are
using segmenting they would know not to
send me emails at night because you can
segment by time's up so what a lot of
markers don't realize is if people have
tons of emails over the weekend or at
night they usually ignore many of those
emails or just mark them as read due to
laziness
don't be at the bottom of someone's
email inbox be at the top send your
emails when they are more likely to read
them such as a weekday or in the early
mornings so you are at the top of their
inbox when they start going through the
emails strategy six write like a friend
I have a question for you when you get
an email from a friend you open it well
of course you do if you don't you
probably missed it by accident or
they're not really your friend now what
about an email pitching you on something
chances are you're gonna ignore it if
your emails are written as if they're
casual as if you were writing an email
to a friend it'll get open more the
easiest way to do this is make your
subject line lowercase in other words
don't capitalize the first letter in
each word and make your subject line
super proper instead make it casual a
lot of times I just like using all
lowercase letters in my subject line I
find this to increase my open rates by
roughly 3.43 when I use this strategy
doesn't seem like a lot but every little
bit adds up strategy seven a b testing
did you know that according to Smart
insights sixty percent of companies use
a b testing to maximize conversions if
you don't know what works try multiple
methods and you can see what sticks and
what's doing amazing job in getting your
emails open I love sending out emails
with the a b subject line in other words
half the group gets one subject line the
other group gets another subject line
and typically with most email platforms
they may test out the subject line to a
few hundred or a few thousand of your
subscriber base and whatever one
converts better they then take that
subject line and send it out to the rest
so you get the most opens and this gives
you insights on what you should do in
the future it's like getting customer
feedback without even making people fill
out a survey now follow those tips and
you'll be off and getting 30 plus
percent open rates like I do in my
agency now if you need help with your
email marketing check out NP digital
where we're the agency of the year and
we help companies grow through email
marketing as well as all other forms of
digital marketing if you just have any
questions leave a comment below I'm here
to help and answer them as well